
                CODE FOR SPARSE RECOVERY EXPERIMENTS


        Introduction

    This package contains the framework used to perform sparse recovery
experiments like those in papers BI08, BGIKS08, BIR08.

    The base functions are:
        gen_matrix.m - generates a given type of measurement matrix
        gen_signal.m - generates a test signal
        experiment.m - performs a sparse recovery experiment
    
    A small demo of how to use these functions is shown in demo.m. (Note: you
might need to compile some of the mex files for your platform, see below; also
for the image part of the demo you need to have Matlab's Wavelet Toolbox
installed).

    Important high level programs are:
        sparse_experiments.m -
            Used to generate a probability of exact recovery plot. The range of
            parameters (N, Ms, Ks, attempts) is set from inside this file.

        sparse_experiments_distributed.m -
            Matlab DCT cluster version of the above.

        benchmark.m -
            Performs a runtime benchmark of a set of algorithms.

        sparse_experiments_plot.m, benchmark_plot.m -
            Generate plots from the experiment data.

    There are also programs to perform image experiments; see load_image.m,
image_experiment.m, and image_test.m .

    All .m files contain documentation, which can be seen by viewing the
file or using the Matlab command help (e.g. "help benchmark").

    Note: init.m adds relevant subdirectories to the Matlab path. It is ran
inside most programs, but it can also be called manually at the start of the
Matlab session for safety.

    
        Installing solvers for LP experiments

    To perform LP experiments, l1magic must be installed. Download the l1magic
archive from http://www.acm.caltech.edu/l1magic/ . Unpack the archive so that
the l1magic directory is at the root of the code installation (i.e. l1magic is a
directory along with Matrices, Util, etc.)

To use GPSR, the GPSR_BB.m program must be placed in the root directory of the
code installation. The GPSR website is http://www.lx.it.pt/~mtf/GPSR/ .


        Compiling the C programs (MEX)

    The important (bottleneck) parts are implemented as C programs which Matlab
calls as MEX files. These files are in Util. Compiled binaries are included for
Windows (32-bit Matlab) and Linux (64-bit). For other platforms, one needs to
compile them by running "mex <file.c>". The mex script comes with Matlab (it
should be in the run path). The Util directory contains compile.bat and
compile.sh scripts to call mex on all the c files there.


        Authors

    Radu Berinde, MIT, texel@mit.edu
    Piotr Indyk, MIT, indyk@mit.edu


        References

BI08 R. Berinde and P. Indyk, Sparse recovery using sparse random matrices.
     ''MIT-CSAIL Technical Report'', 2008.

BGIKS08 R. Berinde, A. Gilbert, P. Indyk, H. Karloff, and M. Strauss. Combining
        geometry and combinatorics: a unified approach to sparse signal
        recovery, ''Allerton'', 2008.

BIR08 R. Berinde, P.Indyk, and M. Ružic. Practical Near-optimal Sparse Recovery
      in the L1 Norm, ''Allerton'', 2008


