
MATLAB support for iPhone and Android Sensors enables you to read sensor 
data from a mobile device (Apple or Android platforms) connected to the same 
network as a computer running MATLAB. To start using this functionality, 
you have to install the supported mobile app on your device and the MATLAB 
support files from this File Exchange submission on your computer.  
The currently supported mobile apps are:

Android (mobile phones and tablets): SensorUdp by Takashi, Sasaki
Apple (iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch): Sensor Monitor by Ko, Young-woo
 
  
INSTALLATION

On your Android Device
Using your Android device or browser on your PC go to Google Play and install SensorUdp. 

On your Apple Device
Using your Apple device or iTunes go to Apple Store and install 
Sensor Monitor app from there. After you install this app, start it and 
go to More -> About and upgrade to the Pro version, otherwise the app will 
not send sensor data over the network.

In MATLAB
1. Unzip sensorgroup.zip to the location where you want the files to 
   permanently live. (You've probably already done this if you are reading this) 
2. Open MATLAB. Using the MATLAB Current Folder panel, navigate to the 
   sensorgroup folder which you will have after you unzip sensorgroup.zip.
3. Run setupmobile.m 
 

HOW TO USE
Before you start using it, please connect your device to the same network as 
the host computer where you are running MATLAB. You may use Wi-Fi or 
cellular network, and depending on your network setup, in some cases you 
may need to use a VPN. Please note, that due to the nature of communication 
protocol (UDP) that is used by the mobile app, the app will not complain if data 
packets cannot reach the host machine.  

Set up and read data from an Apple device:

1. Open Sensor Monitor app.
2. In MATLAB, enter: obj = sensorgroup('AppleMobile')
   MATLAB displays instructions for configuring Sensor Monitor.
3. In Sensor Monitor, select the Network tab and change Current Send Mode 
   to Binary. Enter the dest. host and port values as displayed in the instructions. 
   Tap Start Send. If configured properly, MATLAB displays a message 
   that it is logging data from the mobile device, including a list of measurements. 
   Leave the Sensor Monitor app open and running in the foreground. If it goes 
   to the background, iOS will stop the app after some time and it will stop sending data.
4. In MATLAB, display the current data by entering: showLatestValues(obj)
   MATLAB displays the measurements, latest values, units, and log size for 
   each measurement. It identifies measurements for which it has not received data.
5. When you are done, in Sensor Monitor, tap Stop Send.

Set up and read data from an Android device:

1. Open SensorUdp app.
2. In MATLAB, enter: obj = sensorgroup('AndroidMobile')
   MATLAB displays instructions for configuring SensorUdp.
3. In SensorUdp, update the dest. host and port values. 
4. In SensorUdp, use the check boxes for accelerometer cvs line, 
   magnetic field cvs line, and orientation cvs line to choose which 
   sensors send data. Then, tap the Send button. MATLAB displays a message 
   that it is logging data from the mobile device, including a list of sensors.
5. In MATLAB, display the current data by entering: showLatestValues(obj)
   MATLAB displays the measurements, latest values, units, and log size for 
   each measurement. It also identifies measurements for which it has not received data.
6. When you are done, exit from the app by pressing the Android Back button. 
   In order to increase battery life, it’s recommended to open the 
   Android Task Manager and make sure that SensorUdp is not running after you finished.

HOW TO ACCESS RECEIVED DATA (Apple and Android Devices)
Use showLatestValues to display a list of measurement names and the most 
recent value for each one. For example:

    showLatestValues(obj)

You can also get the latest value of a specific measurement listed by showLatestValues. 
For example:

    obj.Acceleration

You can use sensorgroup methods to access the logged measurement values.
For example, to get logged acceleration values call:

    [a, t] = accellog(obj)

Run "help sensorgroup" to get more information.


TROUBLESHOOTING 
If MATLAB does not receive data from the mobile device:
Symptom: MATLAB does not display "logging data from the mobile device" message 
after you tap the Send or Start Send button in the app on the mobile device.
Verify or try the following:
- In the app on the mobile device:
  Enable the sensors.
  Set the IP address and port number provided by MATLAB. 
  If MATLAB provides multiple IP addresses, try each one.
  Tap the Send or Start Send button.
- The mobile device is connected to the correct Wi-Fi network. Airplane mode is off.
- The host computer running MATLAB is connected to the network.
- Routers on the network are configured to pass UDP traffic for the specified  port number.

Happy sensing!

